All it's the next thing we're going to talk about our influences.
So people who have a large social reach whose opinions are listened to and matter to a lot of people.
Now if you manage to get an influencer who believes in your project or believes in your cause to post
or tweet or share your project then you going to be a to reach a much larger group of people than you
would have been able to by yourself.
So where do you find these influences of really really useful tool.
It's called audience and with audience you're able to put in a search say for example if your project
was targeted that seamstresses.
Right.
You are able to put in the word seamstress and it will look for all of the Twitter profiles whose profile
descriptions contain the word seamstress and you could even narrow people down by their location so
you can find all of the seamstresses who are based in London for example.
And then you can use this tool to filter all of the people with the largest number of followers.
So who are the influences or who are the people whose posts get retweeted and get liked.
A lot of times and you'll be able to get the attention of your target market and by barring that influence.
Now once you've caught those influences lined up the next thing you want to do is to set up what's called
a thunderclap.
So you go to thunderclap dot I.A. and it's a really really useful tool that allows you to amplify your
message across all of social media accounts.
So the way that it works is that you create a thunderclap.
So this has a campaign title you put into a category and you have a particular message and then you
get your influencers or as well as your friends and family and followers.
Anybody who can be convinced to share your message to their social media accounts.
It should be something that contains a link to your Kickstarter campaign.
And a brief message about what it is and why they should go and check it out.
And you can set a particular date where this thunderclap will go out.
So usually the way that you would do it is to set the thunderclap to go out on the day of your Kickstarter
launch.
So that means that anybody who sign up to your thunderclaps so any influences or friends they will donate
a single post in their Facebook or Twitter or both that carries your message.
And what this means is that simultaneously maybe 100 or maybe 200 tweets or Facebook posts will go out
there in the world and this will help you trend any of your hashtags as well as trend.
Your actual link because to the social media accounts such as Facebook or Twitter it will appear as
if something significant has happened right.
Something is causing all of these people to simultaneously post a single hashtag or single link about
a particular thing and that shows those Web sites that something is really viral something is happening
and give all of those posts a viral sort of boost.
And you'll see a much greater amount of reach than people separately posting about your project.
So this is a really really great tool and something that we used to great effect.
Now another tool that I want to talk to you about is crowd stream.
So crowds has something called a backup directory.
So this is a directory of all the super backas on Kickstarter.
Indigo.
So people who have pledged for more than five projects in total.
Now what you can do on here is you can search by category.
For example if you're putting out a Kickstarter campaign in the food category save the Fierro cheese
strainer right.
Then you can look at all the people who have pledged previously in the food category so maybe they are
foodies themselves and you can even search by their locations and maybe you're only looking for backers
within the U.K. or the U.S. or anywhere that you're planning on shipping to.
And you can see all the backers who have pledged maybe all the people who have pledged for more than
50 projects or people who've pledged more than 100 projects.
The real super back is the people who are really really passionate or excited about that particular
category.
And you can reach them through their Facebook or through their Twitter through their Web sites.
And this way gives you a targeted way of getting the attention of super backers now within crowds.
There's also a really cool tool that helps you with getting press so you can search by particular category
such as design or comics.
And then you can narrow it down to specific subcategories and you can generate and download these Excel
spreadsheets that give you the details of who the journalists are where who they work for what their
contact details are and you can start approaching the people who might be right for your particular
category.
Now it would be a myth if I'm Taurima influences and I don't mention the biggest influence network which
is product hunt.
So if you've never been on product hunt go to it's day and check it out.
It is a really really cool Web site and it's one of my favorite.
It's a great way of discovering new things are happening and new tools and new apps.
Everything that you see on product hunt that is trending will probably get written about in Tech Crunch
two or three days later.
It really is.
The initial uses haven.
So the way that product hunt works is that when you hunt a project or a product it will show up on the
home page for 24 hours.
And within those 24 hours the more people that upload a particular product because they think it's cool
or they think it's awesome means that it will float up higher on the page.
And this way you can discover what are the most relevant.
What are the coolest projects every single day.
And you can do this with your Kickstarter campaign as well.
And the thing about product one is that in order to show up on that popular tab instead of going into
the newest tab which is more hidden which is not showing up by default is to get a product influencer
to hunt your product and you can find the influencers sorted essentially by their influence on a Web
site called Product Hunt leaderboard.
So it shows you the hunter's name it shows you what it is that they do.
And it's that easy way of figuring out how to reach them usually by Twitter because Product Hunt accounts
are linked to Twitter.
Once you've found a super hunter who has hunted stuff in your category who might be interested in that
particular field then it might be worth reaching out to them through DMD's on Twitter or through just
tweeting at them and asking if they might be interested in looking at your campaign and hunting it on
Product Hunt.
Another part of influence the network that I want to mention is something called back a club.
So if you launch any Kickstarter or Indiegogo you'll probably hear about these people.
And this is more of a word of warning.
So this is something that we tried out and we learnt a lot of lessons from.
So I want to show you all of the things that they've kept hidden from their main information page and
they don't actually tell people about it just so that you avoid the mistakes that we made with regards
to Bakhit club and similar types of services.
So the way that they work is that before you pay them any money.
This is what they tell you.
They say that they don't charge an upfront fee for their service and essentially their service is promoting
your product to that list of super backers within their club.
And in return you offer their super backers a better discount or a better rate than what you already
have for your normal Kickstarter back as you discover it on the main page.
So say will be something like 20 percent off each tier or something like a special package just for
the Bacchic club people.
And then they say that they'll only invoice you after they've proven their value to your campaign and
that means that you've raised more than 379 in new pledges who are coming from back at clubs themselves.
So people who belong into back a club people who they've sent you once they've raised more than the
amount of money that you're paying back the club.
That's when they say that they'll invoice you.
Now here's the problem.
After you've submitted your project to them and they've approved you this is an email that they sent
us.
So remember before it says they do not charge an upfront fee Well they do they charge a $79 upfront
fee and then they say that we're going to send an email blast to our community about your project.
And if you meet your funding goal and get at least $379 or more into pledges from the Baghdad club community
then they're going to invoice you and get you to pay the the $300 difference so that in total you pay
them three hundred seventy nine dollars for their service right.
So here's what they say.
Now this is the breakdown so it's $79 upfront fee and it's $300.
Once your goal is reached not once your campaign ends and the total amount that you pay them is $379.
But they're saying that because you will get $379 or more from that community then essentially you know
you're not really losing out.
But actually there's actually quite a few catches because a lot of the people from back of club actually
end up canceling that pledge once you've paid back club that $379 and this is indeed what we found.
So it's a complete fallacy where they say we help you reach your goal and we help you raise more than
the amount that you pay us.
Seemed like a win win situation.
But it's actually not.
The other thing that they say is that the services that they promise are tweet about your project feature
in their e-mail newsletter and get listed on their Web site.
So once you pay the money to them here's what you'll find out.
In order to actually get that tweet you first have to promote them so you have to put the back a club
banner onto your Kickstarter project so that other campaigns can discover about them and it sort of
refers people to them.
The other thing that you could do is do a project update where you say we got featured on back at club
again.
Promoting them.
So you actually have to do work to promote them in order to get them to tweet about you after you've
paid them an amount for their service.
Now the other thing that they tell you is that in order to get featured on their e-mail newsletter after
you've paid your you know almost 400 dollars in order to show up in the first five slots you have to
pay them extra.
And this is nowhere to be found.
Before you commit into this service by the way.
So by default they say that you'll show up basically at the end of their newsletter where nobody reads.
But if you pay them extra then you will get a higher spot on that newsletter.
So I hope you realize how incredibly dodgy it is.
Up till now and you know the thing to realize is that all of this is through private e-mail communications
after you've paid and it's no where to be found on any sort of information page on their main web site.
So do your research consider what we've told you and make an informed decision about whether or not
you want to go for these types of services.
My advice is to completely ignore them.
They don't help you all that much and their service is borderline a scam.
And we learn our lesson we paid our $400 of learning fee.
So I hope we can help you avoid the same mistakes that we did.